---
title:  "Why I am GitHub addicted."
date:   2015-12-13 10:18:00
description: How it all started and when I got addicted.
tags:
- talk
- opinion
---

If you are a developer and never heared of `GitHub`, you should check it out asap.

GitHub is a platform for collaboration on open source projects where everyone can commit fixes, additions or features to any open source repository found on the site. GitHub is basically a rich frontend interface for the commandline tool `git` which is an alternative to known `version control systems` like SVN or Mercurial.

Many prominent open source projects are hosted on GitHub e.g. [Ruby On Rails](http://github.com/rails/rails), [Angular.js](http://github.com/angular/angular) and since December this year [Swift](http://github.com/apple/swift).

It's easy to get started, create a repository online, add github as a remote to your project and push to it.
GitHub will take care of organizing Issues, Pull Requests, MileStones etc. for you.

At first I idled on GitHub because I thought it's fancy to have a GitHub Account, that changed within the last few years.
I started by uploading small pieces of software to it, wrote horrible README.md files (all I was saying was `beta`, `wip`, `not-finished-yet`).

Then later I discovered the [Trending Section](http://github.com/trending) section on GitHub. This section contains a lot of new popular libraries, frameworks or tools, also it's autogenerated everyday. I get a `lot` of upcoming and trending frameworks everyday and I'm excited to see all the cool libraries popping out every now and then.

In my opinion, GitHub is like a trimmed down version of Reddit/HackerNews. You'll see what people like (organized by day, month and year) and how many people are contributing to it.

Right now I'm participating in the game by contributing bugfixes, features or various other stuff to open source projects I use everyday. Most of my experience comes from learning about other people's code. 

If you are bored right now, I highly suggest you to check it out.



So, to keep my old GitHub Spirit alive, I'm leaving this blog with this:

- // TODO ;)